With the object, there are also two meditations. Object, object meditation, or I am using that
terminology, maybe yesterday I used it as the character states.
Shamatha meditation with the character states of "out" and "in" and Shamatha meditation with no
character states or no object. So these two.
And yesterday we discussed about Shamatha meditation of the character states or object. Yes, that
has two. "Out" and "in".
It's not something that you have to do that, but that if you use those techniques well to settle
the mind, which even you can prefer, it's not something that you have to do all of these things.
You can choose and apply these things. So since this we are talking about this Maha Mudra and which
is always emphasized of the "Hammata" and "Vipashana" union of that, so therefore I am going to
highlight of these things.
So now we talk, I have mentioned about "Out", outer objects. Now we talk inner objects. Inner
objects also can be many things, but it is again, yes, top two now.
And that is, for example, first inner object is with breathing and without breath or with other
techniques.
With breathing and again it is the same position, the same thing as we discussed yesterday and you
know of that.
And with good postures, seven postures to the Buddha Veroa channels or whatever you are in good
postures, relaxing in that status and then now keep the normal breathing, nothing changes about the
breathing, but keep the normal breathing and you start following the breathing.
Gradually we are going to breathe out and in, out and in, just as follows that. When breathing is
going out, the thoughts follow with breathing, without.
When breathing comes in, inhale and thoughts are coming, we breathe inward.
And the teaching said, kind of like breathing goes like this much far or maybe half meters or
whatever this is, about this, this distance.
I mean this is just roughly measurement that it goes. And that is going in and out, you simply
follow breathing with the "as" thought or "as" breathing thoughts and that is one.
And again that thought becomes too much restless and too difficult and then start counting the
breathings.
Breathing in, again out and in as one or out in one, in two, out again count that one, two, three,
five, ten, whatever you call it.
Follow the breathing and counting the breathings.
In a view that means you are concentrating now, now your mind with breathing, with counting both,
both together, definitely that will help to settle the mind, settle the mind.
Again, as we discussed yesterday, what will become perfect, good shamatha? Perfect shamatha, we
need concentration first.
To show concentration, optimal concentration, we are concentrating in this case with breathing all
the concrete.
That is really mind is following, instead wondering different directions.
We are regulating mind. We are regulating mind. We are putting mind in rhythm, not restless, not
convoluted, without any regulations, randomly doing everything.
We are regulating that. That is known as displaying, displaying the mind.
One Buddha said, "Tame your mind." This is where timing the mind, timing the mind, displaying the
mind.
So this is known as the shamatha meditation with the characteristic of the object, with the inward.
And then there is another shamatha meditation, which is known as the vulnerable object meditation
inwardly.
Inwardly also concentrating something novel, I mean novel object, concentrating with the novel
object inward, the shamatha.
That is, again, there are many different techniques, but we use Buddha's image, such as in our
heart center.
There are beautiful lotus flowers, ad vedal lotus flowers, beautiful.
In the middle of the ad lotus flowers, there is then Buddha Shaktamuni is residing, residing as
golden color, same color as we concentrated yesterday, or to explain the outside, what is Buddha.
Saying that Buddha inwardly, and as we know, Buddha is calm, soothing, peaceful, radiating, Buddha
is meditating.
Buddha is generally always in the teaching, you see.
When you reach enlightenment, there is no difference between post-meditation and meditation status,
always in the natural status, not out of the natural.
So therefore, it is always Buddha within that status, and calm and peaceful, and concentrating to
put back to that Buddha, Buddha, and keeping that again.
And during that time, again, if mind goes away, of course it will go away, this is natural. Again,
you have to bring back. As soon as you notice, as that moment, bring back mind to that status.
Keep doing this, again and again, again and again. And then, my buried mind will become calm and
peaceful. That is known as chamakas, calm and abiding status here.
In the great masters he says, I mean these texts, texts, and he said, you should apply those
techniques.
He said he is going to make it roughly really there, apply all these techniques.
Once you have had this certainty, kind of like very stable status, then it will bring the chamakas
meditation without object, without characteristics.
That is the true chamakas meditation. True. Without any disturbances, now you are able to maintain.
Our mind is now tamed, beautiful. And that chamakas meditation is, already I mentioned, this name
is known as without characteristics, or without any object.
This time, now you are not really focusing anything, tonally, except resting now. Resting. And
resting and relaxing that, without any things.
This time, generally, chamakas meditation, or vipassana meditation, or the mahamudra meditation and
zukti meditation, now almost the same.
There is nothing really big difference. It is calm, peaceful, and it is abiding, it is natural
status.
This is now the beginning of the vipassana meditation. Also, in other words, mahamudra meditation
and zukti meditations.
This is, it is fresh, it is natural, it is without any effort. You are relaxing in that natural
status.
What is this? Also, we are not wondering our mind in every direction. You are now already settled.
Settle. During this time, during this time, what is it? Relaxing in the natural.
Relaxing in the natural, any semi-opened eye. F is not bothering you with eye.
If it is not eye-opening, it is not bothering, semi-opened eye. Looking toward tip of nose.
Not exactly tip of nose, but toward tip of nose. Or just above, sometimes teaching said, like this
height.
This height, like this, status, looking toward tip, to the direct, to the space.
And if you are semi-open, or eyes open, that status, and trying to not blink the eye.
Not blink the eye, and not move the eyeballs. Why? Again, in the teaching said, it is very
important to not move the eyes.
In the teaching said, mind is very much dependent with wind. Mind is very much dependent or very
much connected.
I use the word connected. Mind is very much connected with wind.
Wind is very much connected with the channels, or the nerve systems.
And the nerve systems are very much connected with the eye.
And we have five senses, but among all the senses, eye is one of the very active, powerful senses.
So if I go that indicate, if I start moving, it will triple the tingling, triggers, the channels,
the nerve systems.
That channels trigger, and that will trigger the wind more.
If wind is more triggering, that will trigger the mind, mind.
And when mind triggers more, and then mind is moving, then become a little bit kind of restless.
Those reasons said in these teachings, not trying to not move the eyes blinking, or moving the eyeb
alls.
If you close the eye, and then it is different, then we don't have to concern, and just relax the
mind in a natural state.
The way you are going to relax it is, now it is natural, fresh, and without effort.
And here, what is in this teaching said? This is the three techniques.
You are not going to follow any external conduction or circumstance, relaxing in that freshness
state.
And also, sorry, I am sorry, stay in the freshness state, maybe I could use freshness states.
Stay in the freshness states.
And also, when you stay in the freshness states, not too much tight, not too much forceful, or not
too much loose.
That means, not too much tight of our three doors.
What are three doors in the teaching said? Three doors of the body, speech, and the mind.
So not too much tight of the body.
And what is speech in this case? We are not talking, but speech is wind.
Not too much energy, or wind trying to tight, or controlling.
That means also even controlling the breathing, breathing, breathing.
And then, not too much also forceful mind, forceful, very relaxed.
So this is what is called relax.
And then be in that natural rhythm, natural rhythm, natural rhythm without losing the awareness,
without losing the awareness.
This is, as I said, the beginning of the Mahamudra meditation and Dzogchen meditation.
This is how we start the meditations.
This, in other words, we must use a very simple rule.
These three are no distractions, no effort, no constructions, or trying to make something.
These three things.
When you relax in that natural state, when you relax in that state,
this has also, according here, in the teaching, said, it also completed all three doors of
liberation.
According Mahayana teaching, or generally what I teach in Mahayana, and as well as Vaidyana
teaching too,
three doors of liberation are known as cause, resolve, and it is identity.
If I put, you can't remember, it's simple.
Cause is simple, we tell, cause is emptiness, resolve is emptiness, and identity is emptiness.
Or also use the terminology in the teaching, cause is beyond the character stress,
and resolve is beyond the expectations, and nature is empty.
But it all means, generally different warning, but simply, if you can understand, I said it.
Cause is empty, resolve is empty, and nature is empty.
Nature, what means?
Nature of the cause, nature of the resolve is empty.
All that is emptiness.
And we relax in that natural status, natural status,
which means we are in the prison status, prison, right, in the prison status.
When we are relaxing the prison status, we are not lingering our code in the past memories, past
constructions.
That is here.
Imagine, it is preformed, the door of liberation preformed the cause.
Usually, in our conceptual level, in our mind level, the kind of past is cause.
That's what this result, and the future, that is what the present is here.
Future will be a result of this present.
That's our kind of idea, even there is nothing really that comes.
But that's the way our mind thinks, thinks.
So therefore, here, when we relax in that natural state of the present,
there is no lingering thought, no kind of brain thought of the past, all these and that things.
Things, that is the emptiness of the cause, cause.
Cause, the emptiness, all the cause, emptiness of the beyond characteristics.
When you are sitting in a reside in the prison status, there is no present, actually.
There is nothing that we grab to hold the present.
The present itself is just a name, in a way.
There is nothing really to hold that we grab.
It's just this fresh state of the present.
That is, the present is the emptiness, the role of the present of the emptiness.
When there are no expectations and broken things for the future,
that is, the result is preformed or the emptiness of the expectations, expectations.
So therefore, abiding in this natural status, status is all completed, three dolls of liberation,
say that.
That, actually, what that, again, what are we going to bring from this?
This means everything is captured.
Past is captured, future is captured, present is captured,
where, in the great openness of the emptiness of the pure from the beginning, that will, that we
are talking,
all that free from the corporate cities and free from any graspings, cleanings,
that prison status is gone.
We are decided, relaxing in that natural status.
That, when we are relaxing in that natural status, our mind is become calm and peaceful.
We are relaxing.
There is no more worries.
There is no more anxieties.
There is no more fears.
There is no more expectations.
All those games of the thoughts are completely subsided,
liberated within its own natural status.
That is, then, performed meditation.
In this case, named as performed special samadha meditations, special samadha meditations.
This itself, as I said, itself is mahamadhara and zoki, zoki teachings, zoki practice.
This is what it is.
It is.
Now, so, with this understanding, with this understanding, again, here,
great masters continue activating or re-glorifying this.
And, again, he said, really, how to do, how to maintain this, or with all those different names,
the causes, the emptiness, the results, the emptiness, the nature is the emptiness.
All this, what the great teacher, Buddha, Dr. Mani, told,
which means everything is in that natural status.
How to maintain this?
Stay with this nature of the mind.
Relax in that status, without any trying to do anything.
When we do that, everything is completely within that.
Every, all the teachings, all those idealizations,
everything is completed within that status.
Relaxing mind in that natural state, everything is completed.
As hundreds of rivals of the different vailis can be put under one bridge,
under one bridge, hundreds of rivals, or hundreds of rivals of different vailis.
Vailis can be put under one bridge.
That is relaxing our mind in that natural status.
How to relax that natural status?
Not changing, not constructing, not making effort, and relaxing.
And without losing that present, present, or without losing that awareness, awareness, that.